Feature/create-repo-github (#109)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/github/setup-repository-script.asciidoc

= Setting up a repository

By the end of this guide, a repository will be created in an automated way using a script.

== Prerequisites

> * Have a GitHub user registered and GitHub CLI installed and configured. If it is not the case, please go back to corresponding guide.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A GitHub user.

```

  ./create-repo.sh -a 'import' -d <local source directory> -b <source branch> -s gitflow -r -n <repository name>

This will create `master` (and `develop` since a branching strategy is specified) from the `<source branch>`, removing any other branch (including `<source branch>`).

WARNING: This operation is destructive regarding branches on the local repository.

NOTE: Same command could also be used with a local directory, but then using `-b` and `-r` would be redundant.

== Branching strategies

To ensure the quality of development, it is crucial to keep a clean Git workflow. The following branching strategies are supported (using `-s` flag):

=== Gitflow

This is not an explanation of Gitflow (there are plenty of them on the web), but the actions performed by the script to help you start using this worflow.

==== Branches

* `master` is the initial (seed) branch.
* `develop` branch is created from `master` branch.

Any other branch part the strategy (feature, release, and hotfix branches) will be created by developers during the lifecycle of the project.

=== Policies

> It is possible to protect important branches against bad practices using branch policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to protect important branches against bad practices using branch protection rules.
```

> The following branch policies are applied to `master` and `develop` branches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following branch protection rules are applied to `master` and `develop` branches:
```

> * Require a minimum number of reviewers: ON
> ** Minimum number of reviewers: 1
> ** Allow requestors to approve their own changes: ON
> ** Prohibit the most recent pusher from approving their own changes: OFF
> ** Allow completion even if some reviewers vote to wait or reject: OFF
> ** When new changes are pushed: Reset all approval votes (does not reset votes to reject or wait)
> * Check for linked work items: OFF
> * Check for comment resolution: REQUIRED
> * Limit merge types: OFF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Require a pull request before merging: ON
** Require approvals: 1
** Dismiss stale pull request approvals when new commits are pushed: ON
* Require conversation resolution before merging: ON
```

The above policies are defined in a configuration file located at `/scripts/repositories/common/config/strategy.cfg`. Feel free to adapt it to your needs.

> NOTE: This is the bare minimum standard for any project. We do not prohibit the most recent pusher from approving their own changes, although being more than recommendable, because if we do, it will block the auto-approval of Pull Requests generated during pipelines creation on the following guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is the bare minimum standard for any project.
```

> You can find more information about branch policies in the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/branch-policies?view=azure-devops[official documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information about branch protection rules in the https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/about-protected-branches[official documentation].
```
